# Internship Based Analysis Report

## Section 1

**General Description of your working environment:**

**Explain the business, its product and/or services, its size (annual sales volume, number of employees), its location, the industry they are in, their expertise, market they are in, geographical location(s), their competition, etc.**

BUDK Worldwide Inc. is an online ecommerce company that operates multiple brands that specialize in weaponry such as knives and swords but also sells survival gear, guns, and tactical gear just to name a few. BUDK Inc. was founded in 1989 as a catalog merchant and has since began shifting more of their operations to online ecommerce since a growing number of their customer base has opted for online shopping as opposed to catalog purchasing. The BUDK Worldwide Inc. brand is housed under the umbrella of On The Edge Brands which consists of a consolidation of the company’s multiple product line brands. The On The Edge brands are as follows: BUDK, True Swords, Kennesaw Cutlery, CH Kadels and United Cutlery. BUDK self-hosts all the websites for each individual brand as well as maintains online stores on Amazon, EBAY, and WISH. BUDK Inc.’s headquarters and distribution center are based in Moultrie, Georgia, which is in Southwest Georgia. BUDK Inc. is an industry leader in the knife industry and has netted an average of $37 million over the past 5 years in sales and has 300+ employees. BUDK Worldwide Inc. is a top 10 industry leader in the knife industry but their competitors are Bubba Knives, Dog Knives, and Jake2Jake Custom Knives just to name a few. To compete in an online marketplace, BUDK Worldwide Inc. has invested heavily in their IT department to manage their self-hosted websites as well as their employee accessible Intranet system that integrates with Amazon, EBAY and WISH for easy product maintenance.

## Section 2

**Identify the objective(s) / problem you are, will be, working on:**

- **Describe the existing function(s), the way system is, has been, working. Investigate the process in detail.**

- **Clearly identify the problem, or more specifically, a discrepancy between an existing and desired state of affairs.**

- **Clearly describe your learning objective, including your duties, responsibilities, and activities for meeting objectives.**

- The function of the system has been the user gathers multiple reports from Amazon and from the BUDK’s database and combine this information together using the Amazon reports and the BUDK reports in order to generate one consolidated report to review the unit sales, profits, fees, inventory levels and other pertinent information for the products sold via Amazon and EBAY. The amount spent on advertisement campaigns for individual items and fees associated with each item a customer purchased is contained within Amazon’s database and has been accessible to the Merchandising, Finance and IT Departments via Amazon’s Seller Central portal but is not useful because it is not coupled with the gross profit information contain on BUDK’s database nor is it aggregable within Amazon’s portal. 
Users currently log into two separate Amazon Seller Central accounts and generate Excel reports from those websites. Because the reports are generated ad-hoc within the Amazon Seller Central portal, the date ranges and multiple report types can be generated by the user via pre-determined drop-down boxes within the portal.  They then select the necessary information to generate the information needed and save the Excel documents. The user accesses the auto-generated Excel reports that are derived from BUDK's database consisting of profits, product costs, vendor costs, etc. The user then proceeds to do a V-LOOKUP in Excel to merge information from the Amazon generated reports and the company generated reports. The user then takes the merged report and does various calculations that are necessary to get the information needed for upper-management decision making. This process is currently being done on a daily basis and the information contained within Amazon’s Seller Central portal is needed by multiple employees.

- The current state of affairs requires that users access multiple reports contained on Amazon’s Seller Central and merge this information into reports auto generated via BUDK’s database. This process currently requires all users that need this information to access Amazon’s Seller Central website and complete this merging process. 

  The desired state of affairs is that the needed information regarding campaign ad spends and Amazon fee contained within Amazon Seller Central be housed within the BUDK’s    database and a single report be created and auto-generated that can contain all of the required information the users need. 

  The discrepancy that exists between these two states is that the information isn’t contained within BUDK’s database and there is no single report that is generated from pre-determined data at pre-determined intervals.

- My learning objective is to enhance my program designing skills, learn a new programming language, experience a program testing environment and learning how to set up report schedules within VisualCron Automation Tool and Scheduler. I will accomplish these objectives by designing a process that will create a way to integrate the data contained in Amazon Seller Central into the BUDK database and work with report users to design a SQL stored procedure that will contain all of the desired data aggregation, calculations and information needed. Because I've only experienced working with Java, I will learn how to query the SQL stored procedure using the C# programming language in Visual Studio to create an interval driven Excel document. I will test the C# code in Visual Studio and debug where necessary to create the desired report. I will create a schedule for the newly created Amazon Seller Central data to be imported into the database. I will create work-instructions for individuals that will be placing the files within the folder to be imported. I will also attend weekly meetings to ask questions, gain additional knowledge and provide status updates on the project. 
  - My duties/responsibilities will be the following for meeting the objectives of this project:
      - Learn the Microsoft SQL Server Management environment
      - Learn the Visual Studio environment
      - Learn BUDK’s intranet environment
      - Interview the users of the report to gain deeper knowledge of the current processes, the information desired on the report and any deadlines that are needed
      - Create process for integrating Amazon Seller Central data into BUDK’s database
      - Create SQL stored procedure based on user interviews
      - Create C# program to query stored procedure and create Excel (use mentor, W3Schools.com and Tutorialpoint.com for additional help and for reference when needed)
      - Continuously debug program for errors
      - Validate data and accuracy
      - Gain user feedback 
      - Incorporate user feedback for report and process improvements
      - Finalize report by setting up schedule and report users within BUDK system
      
## Section 3

**Identify decision criteria important to resolving the problem/objective:**

**These criteria reflect what management thinks is relevant in his/her decision. These might include criteria such as price, product model, efficiency of the existing system, current hardware, software, applications, technology, client/end-user knowledge, and equipment.**

**Since criteria are not equally important, you must assign appropriate weight to each criterion. A simple approach is merely to give the most important criterion a weight of 10 and then assign weights to the rest against this standard.**

**Criteria** | **Weight**
-------- | ---------
Easy to use and understand | 2%
Short development time | 15%
Amazon data integration | 20%
Use existing development tools | 1%
Report is auto generated | 15%
No manual report manipulation | 25%
Easy report revisions | 2%
Defined user list | 3%
Positive user feedback | 2%
Correctly calculated and aggregated data | 15%
**Weighted Project Scores** | **100%**

## Section 4

**Developing alternatives:**

**Develop viable alternatives that could resolve the problem/issue. This section should include at least four alternatives and/or options available for your objective or problem.**

**Review these alternatives with your site supervisor prior to proceeding.**

1.	**Alternative 1:**  This first viable alternative that could resolve the problem is have one central employee/user gather the information from the Amazon Seller Central portal and the BUDK auto-generated reports and merge the information into one report. This solution would ensure that the information is calculated by one person in one uniformed way. It would also ensure that multiple employees were not taking time away from other tasks to do redundant work. 
1.	**Alternative 2:**  The second viable alternative that could resolve the problem is creating a process that will integrate the data contained within Amazon Seller Central into the BUDK database and create a web form via Visual Studio that would be accessible through the BUDK employee Intranet portal that would allow users with access to create ad-hoc reports based on a selection criterion that they would be able to select within the web-form. 
1.	**Alternative 3:**  The third viable alternative that could resolve the problem is having IT staff import into a database table the information contained in Amazon Seller Central reports downloaded from the Amazon portal on a weekly basis and having a SQL stored procedure that would generate the information ad-hoc into an Excel document for distribution to the requestors. This solution would allow the IT staff to be more in control of the data and would ensure that information is accurate based on user specifications. 
1.	**Alternative 4:**  The fourth viable alternative that could resolve the problem is creating a process that will integrate the data contained within Amazon Seller Central reports downloaded by users into the BUDK database and placing that information into a table. Then update existing SQL stored procedures to incorporate the aggregated Amazon information into the BUDK auto generated reports utilized by users. This solution would allow users to view familiar reports and the development time would be far less than creating a new report from scratch. 

## Section 5

**Analyze alternatives:**

**Once alternatives have been identified, you must critically analyze each one. The strengths and weaknesses of each alternative should become evident. You should also take into consideration the criteria and weights you established in step 3.**

**This step needs to be reviewed, verified and approved by your site supervisor.**

### **Alternative 1**

**Strengths**

1.	The data will be aggregated and calculated by one person consistently
1.	No redundant work by multiple employees
1.	No development time

**Weaknesses**

1.	Calculation errors could occur
1.	Only 1 person knows how to create report
1.	Report could be sent to incorrect user/users
1.	Report is not auto generated
1.	Inability to adjust report efficiently
1.	Possible inconsistent report delivery (time/date)
1.	Inability to completely understand data

### **Alternative 2**

**Strengths**

1.	User ability to create ad-hoc reports
1.	Selection criteria for customized report
1.	Web access (BUDK Intranet)
1.	Amazon Seller Central data integrated into BUDK database for future or additional reporting
1.	Existing development tools can be used
1.	Data will be aggregated and calculated accurately

**Weaknesses**

1.	More calculation scenarios
1.	Longer development time
1.	Complex C# code
1.	More user interviews
1.	Report not auto-generated (ad-hoc only)
1.	Could present difficulty for user to understand information generate by their selections
1.	Defined list of approved report recipients

### **Alternative 3**

**Strengths**

1.	Amazon Seller Central data integrated into BUDK database for future or additional reporting
1.	Data will be aggregated and calculated accurately
1.	Knowledgeable IT staff control of workflow functions
1.	Easy report revisions
1.	Short development time

**Weaknesses**

1.	Report is not auto generated
1.	No defined list of approved report recipients
1.	Additional time required from IT staff

### **Alternative 4**

**Strenghths**

1.	Short development time
2.	Amazon Seller Central data integrated into BUDK database for future and additional reporting
3.	Data will be aggregated and calculated accurately
4.	Easy report revision
5.	Report is auto generated
6.	Defined list of approved report recipients
7.	Ability to use current development tools
8.	No manual report manipulation
9.	User familiarity with report

**Weaknesses**

1.	Report possibly will not be clear to user

## Section 6

**Select the best alternative:**

**This is the crucial act of choosing the best alternative from among those listed and assessed. You need to choose the alternative that generated the highest score and fits best for the objective/problem. Provide a discussion that supports your selection in detail.**

**This section needs to be reviewed, verified and approved by your site supervisor.**

**Criteria** | **Weight** | **Alternative 1** | **Alternative 2** | **Alternative 3** | **Alternative 4**
-------- | --------- | -------- | --------- | ---------- | ------------
Easy to use and understand | 2% | 20 | 40 | 25 | 15
Short development time | 15% | 50 | 5 | 80 | 100
Amazon data integration | 20% | 0 | 100 | 100 | 100
Use existing development tools | 1% | 5 | 100 | 90 | 100
Report is auto generated | 15% | 0 | 5 | 0 | 90
No manual report manipulation | 25% | 0 | 25 | 100 | 100
Easy report revisions | 2% | 5 | 60 | 90 | 100
Defined user list | 3% | 0 | 100 | 0 | 100
Positive user feedback | 2% | 15 | 70 | 80 | 90
Correctly calculated and aggregated data | 15% | 10 | 100 | 100 | 100
**Weighted Project Scores** | **100%** | **9.45** | **44.55** | **73.4** | **89.8**

























