# Meaningful Objective Report

## Objective 2:  Learn a new programming language 

I will be learning C# which is an Object-Oriented programming language. This will allow me to work hands on with real-world data as well as have the ability to utilize my skills learned from my Java courses on programming and problem solving. Justin's IT department utilizes Microsoft Visual Studio and the C# programming language. By working with him, I will be able to work in Visual studio to build the scheduled report referenced in LO 1 from scratch using the C# language.

During my internship with BUDK Worldwide Inc., I have delved deep into the C# programming language. Until I began interning here, the only programming language that I had any experience with was Java which aided me in understanding most of the concepts of C#. The first activity in which I used the C# programming language was in the creation of the eBay Pricing Report which is an Excel report that shows all of the items that the company advertises on eBay, the revenue generated by each of the items both total revenue and eBay produced revenue, the current and previous pricing for the item and the ability to adjust the price of the item and track changes using retainable notes columns. The building of this report spanned between SQL and C# programming languages and the need to understand how the information contained within the database can be retrieved using classes within C#. Microsoft Visual Studio is the integrated development environment (IDE) that we used to code the C# programs and debug our programs for data accuracy and functionality. I learned to create a new class, map properties that would be used in program (i.e., variables and their datatype), create methods such as a GetList method to retrieve database information and place it within a list and create a method to output the data into an Excel document that is saved to a file location. During the task of building various reports, I had to research LINQ statements and understand the syntax to sort data by a specific property. I was given the opportunity to troubleshoot reports that were not functioning as intended which allowed me to view code and research how it functioned. These troubleshooting tasks required me to test the code using the debug feature of Visual Studio allowing me to step in and physically see how the code was functioning line by line providing me a deeper understanding of methods, classes and variables. The biggest activity I had was creating the Warehouse Production Analysis report which used an Excel template that already contained data such as dates. This activity allowed me to dive deep into foreach loops and if statements where a template file is passed into the method and the lines are iterated to match dates with the data contained in a table on the database and then insert certain values and formulas into the template. This process allowed me to create a template and research how to use a template within the ExcelPackage class and then using a foreach loop iterate through the list that is passed in a parameter to match on the dates from the template to the dates within the database. I had to create formula strings that in some instances contained the int rowno variable which was turned into a string using the ToString() method. This task allowed me to experiment with concatenating strings and learn how to escape a character within a string. Throughout my internship I built several Excel reports in the Visual Studio environment using the C# programming language. Each of those reports allowed me the experience to experiment with the various loops, create numerous methods for generating return data such as lists and utilizing outside templates and databases to pull in various pieces of data to manipulate within my C# code. Testing these various reports was a big part of the learning process in C#, which was done numerous times to clear errors and correct data. I was also allowed experience to check in changes to production after my testing was complete. This step gave me the ability to review the previous code, review my updated code and build the new information in the various production environments.    

Through these activities I learned how to successfully create a C# program from scratch and debugging that program to ensure that it functions properly. I increased my knowledge of some of the classes that exist within C# and gained a better understanding of methods. Prior to this internship, I struggled with understanding methods and how they function but with this extensive experience with real-world data and creating real-world reports I was able to understand how methods are built. I learned that methods could be built to contain parameters, and some could not and that some could also be designed to return information. I delved deep into loops such as the foreach and for loops by understanding how to control them and knowing the differences between the two. I learned that a foreach loop is predominantly used for iterating through lists or arrays in a consecutive manner. Foreach loops also cannot be stopped but you can use the word break to exit the loop or continue to advance to the next item within the list. For loops can also iterate as well as use break and continue but it can be controlled by an iterator variable that is defined when creating the loop. The biggest lesson learned from the activities I have performed is testing my C# code. I learned that when building a program, you are going to get errors, which in most cases are unavoidable, but I was able to pick up on great tactics to successfully troubleshoot those errors and/or track down error causing lines of code. The understanding of analyzing code to ensure its correct functionality and understanding what errors mean is way more important than the coding itself because of the vast resources on the internet to find blocks of code or definitions for classes. 

The effectiveness of this internship/learning experience has been immense because I was able to work in a team setting, gain valuable guidance from my mentor, learn to thoroughly analyze and transform data, and build functional real-world programs. These activities and this experience will shape my future in coding and allow me to grow within the information technology sector. I was provided with deep and meaningful assignments that not only dealt with basic coding but also spanned across multiple programming languages such as SQL, C#, and Excel. This gave me better insight into how most of the programs that I use daily are built and gives me the foundations to one day be able to build those types of programs myself. I have understood how expansive the C# language is and by having both experience in C# and Java programming languages I can be more marketable in the future. This internship has been a great experience and has provided me with endless knowledge and growth. Although the learning process has been hard at times and I did not understand some concepts, I am thankful to have had a mentor that took the time to show me and guide me in the areas I was lacking experience. I would rate this internship with a 100 percent because the team was helpful, the mentor was helpful, and the environment was relaxed where I could make mistakes and learn from them. 





[Return to Homepage](https://kj04511.github.io/)
